import { PageContent } from "../../components/layout";

<PageContent width="95%" maxWidth="1200px" center gutters>

# Analyze Data

## About Analyzing Data in BDC

Researchers can analyze BDC-hosted data, data they bring themselves (Bring Your Own Data or BYOD), 
or a combination of both. Researchers should visit the Explore BDC Data webpage to explore the data 
BDC hosts and learn more about accessing it.

*Note: Users incur costs for computation, storage of uploaded or imported data (BYOD), storage of 
derived results (including egress costs for downloads of derived data), and file transfers. Read 
more about BDC Usage Costs.*

## Use a BDC Workspace

BDC workspaces offer private, secure environments for running analyses at scale and have 
collaborative features with varying levels of permissions for project members. They also have 
Rstudio and Jupyterlab Notebooks built directly into the platform.

BDC's data are automatically available in BDC workspaces for those with eRA Commons IDs and 
approved data access requests (for controlled-access data).* Researchers bringing their own data 
should refer to Bring Your Own Data below.

-   To use a BDC workspace for the first time, BDC users must create an account and at least one 
project. [Create an account from this 
webpage](https://accounts.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov/auth/login?next=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%2Foauth2%2Fauthorization%3Fresponse_type%3Dcode%26client_id%3D74735b722c33498cb981b6b6e24f659f%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fplatform.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%252Foauth2%252Fredirect%26state%3DNf8ffCyv90SV3fM1I33IfLt9OYPsQ0%26client_next%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fplatform.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%252F%26scope%3Dopenid%26nonce%3D173653215059824939581701286549) 
using instructions in the workspace [Getting started 
guide](https://sb-biodatacatalyst.readme.io/docs/getting-started). A billing group is required to 
create a workspace, and BDC users begin incurring costs when they store Bring Your Own Data and/or 
compute using Bring Your Own Data or BDC-hosted data.
-   Researchers who [already have a BDC workspace account can go to this webpage](https://accounts.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov/auth/login?next=https%3A%2F%2Faccounts.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%2Foauth2%2Fauthorization%3Fresponse_type%3Dcode%26client_id%3D74735b722c33498cb981b6b6e24f659f%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fplatform.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%252Foauth2%252Fredirect%26state%3D1EkV3YBKf68zTItMe1DoVVZJePnUMs%26client_next%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fplatform.sb.biodatacatalyst.nhlbi.nih.gov%252F%26scope%3Dopenid%26nonce%3D151170011845002108041701286760), click "Log in with eRA Commons," and enter their eRA credentials.

*During the data ingestion process, before hosted data are automatically available in BDC 
workspaces, they may be available to import into BDC workspaces by researchers with approved data 
access requests. Learn more here:


## Utilize Analysis Tools

BDC workspaces have tools and features for performing multiple-variant and single-variant 
association studies, including Annotation Explorer for variant aggregations and cloud-optimized 
Genesis R package workflows in Common Workflow Language (CWL). Researchers can also [import a 
Dockstore App](https://sb-biodatacatalyst.readme.io/docs/import-a-dockstore-app) and [bring their 
own tools and workflows](https://bdcatalyst.gitbook.io/biodata-catalyst-documentation/written-documentation/community-tools-and-integration-1/bring-your-own-tool-s-to-biodata-catalyst).

## Bring Your Own Data (BYOD)

As described in the [BDC Data Use 
Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WJbyZqmHXtNdZHlzj9JtLMGjC6CSBndx/edit#bookmark=id.35nkun2), 
researchers can upload data to a BDC workspace (account required; see Use a BDC Workspace below) if 
they have the appropriate approvals, provided researchers do not violate the terms of their Data 
Use Agreements, Limitations, or Institutional Review Board policies and guidelines.

Researchers can upload data from their local storage or an HTTP(S)/FTP server or import it from 
cloud storage. Detailed information is available in [Upload your data 
documentation](https://sb-biodatacatalyst.readme.io/docs/upload-to-the-platform).
</PageContent>
